Workflow: describing old channels removal (#2348)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/common-workflows/pages/workflow-removing-channel.adoc

+
----
spacecmd -- softwarechannel_listsystems <Channel Label>
---- 

[[removing-channel]]
=== Removing channel

A channel, with its metadata, can be removed in the SUMA command line by using the [literal]``spacewalk-remove-channel`` command. 
Keep in mind that this command does not remove the packages themselves from the filesystem. 

Removing packages from the filesystem is described in <<cleaning-up-channel-packages>>.

==== Removing an individual channel

.Procedure: Removing an individual channel using the command line

. To remove an individual channel run the following command:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label
----
+
. To remove multiple channels at the same time, use [literal]``-c`` flag for each channel, followed by the [literal]``channel-label``. 
  For example:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label1 -c channel-label2
----

==== Removing a Parent and all its Children

.Procedure: Removing a Parent and all its Children
. It's also possible to remove a parent channel with all of its children, like this:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -a sles12-sp5-pool-x86_64
----

[[cleaning-up-channel-packages]]
=== Cleaning up channel packages

> ==== Running the sync

Reviewer: Instead of "sync" better use synchronization.

Author: done, thanks

[[workflow-removing-channel]]
= Removing channel

== Use case

This workflow shows how to manually remove SUSE provided channels from {productname} and to clean up end-of-life products, to reclaim space or for other purposes.

== Step-by-step instructions

Manual channel removal consists of the following phases:

. <<preparing-to-remove-channel>>
. <<removing-channels>>
. <<cleaning-up-channel-packages>>

[[preparing-to-remove-channel]]
=== Preparing to remove a channel

Before removing a channel, you must identify the label for the channel to be removed.
It can be done with {webui} or on the command line.

[IMPORTANT]
====
* Be careful not to remove channels that systems are currently subscribed to, or that you are planning on subscribing a system to.
* If there are systems that are currently subscribed to a channel that you want to delete, do not remove the channel until those systems are upgraded or unsubscribed.
====

==== Identifying Channel labels

.Procedure: Identifying channel labels using {webui}
[role=procedure]

> . In the SUSE Manager {webui}, in the sidebar navigate to menu:Software[Channel List > All]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Software[Channel List > All].
```
The next "steps" are not always steps, and the procedure sounds unnecessarily complex.  I'd vote to do the thing first completely with the webui and then the complete thing on the command line.

This command does not remove the packages themselves from the filesystem. 

Removing packages from the filesystem is described in <<cleaning-up-channel-packages>>.

==== Removing an individual channel

.Procedure: Removing an individual channel using the command line

. To remove an individual channel run the following command:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label
----
+
. To remove multiple channels at the same time, use [literal]``-c`` flag for each channel, followed by the [literal]``channel-label``. 
  For example:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label1 -c channel-label2
----

==== Removing a parent and all its child channels

.Procedure: Removing a parent and all its child channels
. It is also possible to remove a parent channel with all of its child channels, like this:
+
----
spacewalk-remove-channel -a sles12-sp5-pool-x86_64
----

[[cleaning-up-channel-packages]]
=== Cleaning up channel packages

==== Running the synchronization

.Procedure: Running the synchronization
. After removing a channel, run the command ``spacewalk-repo-sync`` on all remaining channels, or wait for the operation to complete automatically.

> . Alternatively, for all currently added channels running the following command:

Reviewer: This workflow isn't about adding channels.  Thus I wouldn't mention it here.
